.TH man_1_simple_shell "25 November 2020" "0.01" "hsh man page"                                                                                                   .SH NAME                                                                                                                                                         
.B SShell - simple UNIX command execution program                                                                                                                   
.SH SYNOPSIS                                                                                                                                                       

Usage: SShell [filename]

.SH Description                                                                                                                                                     
SShell is a simple UNIX command interpreter that reads commands from either a file or standard input and executes them.                                            

.B Invocation                                                                                                                                                           
This simple shell and handles programming and command errors differently (as described below). When command line arguments are supplied, dim treats argument 0 as a fil\
\e from which to read commands, and the remaining arguments are set as the positional parameters of the shell. Otherwise, the shell reads commands from its standard in\
put\.                                                                                                                                                               
.br                                                                                                                                                                 
The command line should contain one command per line as the shell runs each of the commands in order before exiting.                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                   
.B Command Execution                                                                                                                                                
.br                                                                                                                                                                     
After receiving a command, SShell tokenizes it into words using " /;" as delimiters. The first word is considered the command and all remaining words are considered ar\
gum\ents to that command.                                                                                                                                          .RS                                                                                                                                                                     
1. If the first character of the command is neither a slash (\\) nor dot (.), the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins.                                  
If there exists a shell builtin by that name, the builtin is invoked.                                                                                                   
.RE                                                                                                                                                                .RS                                                                                                                                                                     
2. If the first character of the command is none of a slash (\\), dot (.\), nor builtin, SShell searches each element of the                                            
PATH environmental variable for a directory containing an executable file by that name.                                                                                 
.RE                                                                                                                                                                .RS                                                                                                                                                                     
3. If the first character of the command is a slash (\\) or dot (.) or either of the above searches was successful,                                                     
the shell executes the named program with any remaining arguments given in a separate execution environment.                                                            
.RE                                                                                                                                                                .B SShell Builtin Commands                                                                                                                                         .RE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
.B exit                                                                  
.RS                                                                      
Usage: exit (status) where status is an integer used to exit the shell.  
Exits the shell.                                                         
If no argument is given, the command is interpreted as exit 0.           
.RE                                                                      
                                                                         
.B env                                                                   
.RS                                                                      
Usage: env                                                               
Prints the current environment.                                          
.RE                                                                      
                                                                         
.SH SEE ALSO                                                             
execve(2), exit(3), fork(2), free(3), malloc(3), sh(1), wait(2),         
                                                                         
SShell emulates the basic functionality of the sh shell.                     
This man page borrows from the man pages sh(1).                          
                                                                         
.SH AUTHOR           
 Wanjiku Karugi and Wendy Omondi. 
